This package contains scripts and python tools for learning predominant 
sense using HDP, a hierarchical topic model.

Directory Structure and Files
=============================
* ComputeSenseRanking.py: program that computes sense ranking and 
predominant sense.
* GenMacmillanSenses.py: program that generates Macmillan word 
distribution of senses.
* GenWordnetSenses.py: program that generates WordNet word distribution 
of senses.
* hdp_output: contains an example of the output generated by HDP.
* lemmatiser_tools: contains OpenNLP and Morpha for tokenising and 
 lemmatising the words when generating dictionary word distribution.
* predom_data: contains example input files for running the program.
* run_predom_sense.sh: script that drives the execution of the program.

Running the System
==================
Prerequisites:
-Wordnet
-HDP topic model (https://github.com/jhlau/hdp-wsi)
-Python lxml

1. Create lemmas.txt: a text file that contains the target lemmas of 
interest.
2. Run HDP to induce senses for the target lemmas.
3. If using Macmillan dictionary, create a directory that contains xml 
files of word definitions. If using WordNet, make sure it is installed 
(i.e.  "wn word -over" command needs to work).
3. Set up the parameters in run_predom_sense.sh and execute the script!


Input Format
============
* lemmas.txt: one line per lemma, in the format word.n (for nouns)
or word.v (for verbs). E.g. "bank.n"

Licensing
=========
* MIT license - http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT.

Publications
------------
* Jey Han Lau, Paul Cook, Diana McCarthy, Spandana Gella and Timothy 
Baldwin (to appear). Learning Word Sense Distributions, Detecting 
Unattested Senses and Identifying Novel Senses Using Topic Models. In 
Proceedings of the 52nd Annual Meeting of the Association for 
Computational Linguistics (ACL 2014), Baltimore, USA.
* Jey Han Lau, Paul Cook, Diana McCarthy, David Newman and Timothy 
Baldwin (2012).  Word Sense Induction for Novel Sense Detection. In 
Proceedings of the 13th Conference of the European Chapter of the 
Association for Computational Linguistics (EACL 2012), Avignon, France, 
pp 591—601.

